---
coding: utf-8

title: Common YANG Data Types for Traffic Engineering

abbrev: TE Common YANG Types
docname: draft-ietf-teas-rfc8776-update-latest
obsoletes: 8776
submissiontype: IETF
workgroup: TEAS Working Group
category: std
ipr: trust200902

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs, comments]

author:
  -
    name: Italo Busi
    org: Huawei
    email: italo.busi@huawei.com
  -
    name: Aihua Guo
    org: Futurewei Technologies
    email: aihuaguo.ietf@gmail.com
  -
    name: Xufeng Liu
    org: Alef Edge
    email: xufeng.liu.ietf@gmail.com
  -
    name: Tarek Saad
    org: Cisco Systems Inc.
    email: tsaad.net@gmail.com
  -
    name: Igor Bryskin
    org: Individual
    email: i_bryskin@yahoo.com

contributor:
  -
    name: Vishnu Pavan Beeram
    org: Juniper Networks
    email: vbeeram@juniper.net
  -
    name: Rakesh Gandhi
    org: Cisco Systems, Inc.
    email: rgandhi@cisco.com

normative:
  ISOIEC_9899:
    title: Information Technology - Programming Languages - C 
    author:
      org: International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC)
    date: October 2024
    seriesinfo: ISO/IEC 9899:2024
    target: https://www.iso.org/standard/82075.html

informative:
  MEF_10.3:
    title: Ethernet Services Attributes Phase 3
    author:
      org: MEF
    date: October 2013
    seriesinfo: MEF 10.3
    target: https://www.mef.net/Assets/Technical_Specifications/PDF/MEF_10.pdf

--- abstract

This document defines a collection of common data types, identities, and groupings in YANG data modeling language. These derived common data types, identities and groupings are intended to be imported by other modules, e.g., those which model the Traffic Engineering (TE) configuration and state capabilities.

This document obsoletes RFC 8776.

--- middle

# Introduction

YANG {{!RFC6020}} {{!RFC7950}} is a data modeling language used to model configuration data, state data, Remote Procedure Calls, and notifications for network management protocols such as the Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF) {{?RFC6241}} or RESTCONF {{?RFC8040}}. The YANG language supports a small set of built-in data types and provides mechanisms to derive other types from the built-in types.

This document introduces a collection of common data types derived from the built-in YANG data types. The derived data types, identities, and groupings are mainly designed to be the common definitions applicable for modeling Traffic Engineering (TE) features in models defined outside of this document. Nevertheless, these common definitions can be used by any other module per the guidance in {{Sections 4.12 and 4.13 of ?I-D.ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis}}.

> Note: Some groupings defined in this document do not follow the guidelines of
{{Section 4.13 of ?I-D.ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis}} not to include
"default" statements. This is due to the fact that they were already defined in {{?RFC8776}} and removing "default"
statements is not a backward compatible change, as defined in {{Section 11 of !RFC7950}}.

This document adds new common data types, identities, and groupings to both the "ietf-te-types" and the "ietf-te-packet-types" YANG modules and obsoletes {{?RFC8776}}. For further details, refer to {{changes-bis}}.

## Editorial Note (To be removed by Editors of this document before sending it to the RFC Editor)

> Note to the RFC Editor: This section is to be removed this document is sent to the RFC Editor.

The YANG trees in {{yang-tree}} have been generated by pyang and have some bugs to be fixed before publication. Please manually fix the YANG tree before sending the document to the RFC Editor.

## Editorial Note (To be removed by the RFC Editor)

> Note to the RFC Editor: This section is to be removed prior to publication.

This document contains placeholder values that need to be replaced
with finalized values at the time of publication.  This note
summarizes all of the substitutions that are needed.

Please apply the following replacements:

- XXXX --> the assigned RFC number for this I-D
- draft-ietf-pce-sid-algo-29, Sections 4.5.1 and 4.5.2 --> the draft version and section number as in the latest version of {{?I-D.ietf-pce-sid-algo}} at the time this document is published as an RFC
- 2026-01-15 --> the actual date of the publication of this document
- 2026-01-23 --> the actual date of the publication of this document

### References to RFCs

This document references a huge number of RFCs only by the RFC number which makes it really hard to follow.

A preference has been expressed to replace the references with the RFC title in the text and just use RFC number as a reference.

For example:

In section 1 change:

> Section 4.12 of {{?I-D.ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis}} and Section 4.13 of
{{?I-D.ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis}}.

to

> Section 4.12 and Section 4.13 of YANG Data Models guidelines
document {{?I-D.ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis}}.

It is suggested that the RFC Editor and the tooling team identify a way to  expand the references as proposed in a programmatic way.

## Terminology

{::boilerplate bcp14}

   The terminology for describing YANG data models is found in
   {{!RFC7950}}.

## Prefixes in Data Node Names

  Names of data nodes and other data model objects
  are prefixed using the standard prefix associated with the
  corresponding YANG imported modules, as shown in {{tab-prefixes}}.

| Prefix          | YANG module          | Reference
| yang            | ietf-yang-types      | {{Section 3 of !RFC9911}}
| inet            | ietf-inet-types      | {{Section 4 of !RFC9911}}
| rt-types        | ietf-routing-types   | {{!RFC8294}}
| te-types        | ietf-te-types        | RFC XXXX
| te-packet-types | ietf-te-packet-types | RFC XXXX
{: #tab-prefixes title="Prefixes and corresponding YANG modules"}

## Tree Diagrams

Tree diagrams used in this document follow the notation defined in {{?RFC8340}}.

# Acronyms and Abbreviations

APS:
: Automatic Protection Switching {{?RFC7271}}

GMPLS:
: Generalized Multiprotocol Label Switching {{?RFC3945}}

LER:
: Label Edge Router {{?RFC5921}}

LSP:
: Label Switched Path {{?RFC3031}}

> Note: in this document, "LSP" refers to a TE LSP or a TE path.

LSR:
: Label Switching Router {{?RFC3031}}

MPLS:
: Multiprotocol Label Switching {{?RFC3031}}

NBMA:
: Non-Broadcast Multi-Access {{?RFC2328}}

PM:
: Performance Metrics {{?RFC2330}}

RSVP:
: Resource Reservation Protocol {{?RFC2205}}

SRLG:
: Shared Risk Link Group {{?RFC4203}}

TE:
: Traffic Engineering {{?RFC9522}}

WTR:
: Wait-to-Restore {{?RFC6378}}

# Overview {#overview}

This document defines two YANG modules for common TE types: "ietf-te-types" ({{te-yang-code}}) for TE generic types and "ietf-te-packet-types" ({{pkt-yang-code}}) for packet-specific types. Other technology-specific TE types are outside the scope of this document.

## TE Types Module Contents

The "ietf-te-types" module ({{te-yang-code}}) contains TE types that are commonly used across multiple TE technology-specific modules.

### Identities

The "ietf-te-types" module contains the following YANG reusable identities:

path-attribute-flags:
: A base identity for supported LSP path flags as defined in {{!RFC3209}}, {{!RFC4090}}, {{?RFC4736}}, {{!RFC5712}}, {{!RFC4920}}, {{!RFC5420}}, {{!RFC7570}}, {{!RFC4875}}, {{!RFC5151}}, {{!RFC5150}}, {{!RFC6001}}, {{!RFC6790}}, {{!RFC7260}}, {{!RFC8001}}, {{!RFC8149}}, and {{!RFC8169}}.

link-protection-type:
: A base identity for supported link protection types as defined in {{!RFC4872}}.

restoration-scheme-type:
: A base identity for supported LSP restoration schemes as defined in {{!RFC4872}}.

protection-external-commands:
: A base identity for supported protection-related external commands used for troubleshooting purposes, as defined in {{!RFC4872}}, {{!RFC6368}}, {{!RFC7271}}, and {{?RFC4427}}.

association-type:
: A base identity for supported LSP association types as defined in {{!RFC6780}}, {{!RFC4872}}, {{!RFC4873}}, and {{!RFC8800}}.

objective-function-type:
: A base identity for supported path objective functions as defined in {{!RFC5541}}.

te-tunnel-type:
: A base identity for supported TE tunnel types as defined in {{!RFC3209}} and {{!RFC4875}}.

lsp-encoding-types:
: A base identity for supported LSP encoding types as defined in {{!RFC3471}}, {{!RFC4328}}, and {{!RFC6004}}. These defined identities includes also technology-specific LSP encoding types for backward compatibility with {{?RFC8776}}.
: Additional technology-specific LSP encoding types can be defined in specific technology-specific modules.

lsp-protection-type:
: A base identity for supported LSP protection types as defined in {{!RFC4872}} and {{!RFC4873}}.

switching-capabilities:
: A base identity for supported interface switching capabilities as defined in {{!RFC3471}}, {{!RFC6002}}, {{!RFC6004}}, {{!RFC7074}}, and {{!RFC7138}}. These defined identities includes also technology-specific interface switching capabilities for backward compatibility with {{?RFC8776}}.
: Additional technology-specific interface switching capabilities can be defined in specific technology-specific modules.

resource-affinities-type:
: A base identity for supported attribute filters associated with a tunnel that must be satisfied for a link to be acceptable as defined in {{!RFC3209}} and {{?RFC2702}}.

path-metric-type:
: A base  identity for supported path metric types as defined in {{!RFC3630}}, {{!RFC3785}}, {{!RFC5440}}, {{!RFC7471}}, {{!RFC8233}}, {{!RFC8570}}, and {{?I-D.ietf-pce-sid-algo}}.
: The unit of the path metric value is interpreted in the context of the path metric type. The derived identities MUST describe the unit and maximum value of the path metric types they define.
: For example, the measurement unit is not applicable for the number of hops metric ('path-metric-hop'). Conversely, the bound of the 'path-metric-loss', defined in 'ietf-te-packet-types', is defined in multiples of the basic unit 0.000003% as described in {{!RFC7471}} and {{!RFC8570}}.

lsp-provisioning-error-reason:
: A base  identity for indicating LSP provisioning error reasons. No standard LSP provisioning error reasons are defined in this document.

path-computation-error-reason:
: A base  identity for indicating path computation error reasons as defined in {{pc-error}}.

protocol-origin-type:
: A base  identity for the type of protocol origin as defined in {{protocol-origin}}.

svec-objective-function-type:
: A base  identity for supported SVEC objective functions as defined in {{!RFC5541}} and {{!RFC8685}}.

svec-metric-type:
: A base  identity for supported SVEC metric types as defined in {{!RFC5541}}.

#### Path Computation Errors {#pc-error}

The "ietf-te-types" module contains the YANG reusable identities for indicating path computation error reasons as defined in {{!RFC5440}}, {{!RFC5441}}, {{!RFC5520}}, {{!RFC5557}}, {{!RFC8306}}, and {{!RFC8685}}.

It also defines the following additional YANG reusable identities for indicating the following path computation error reasons:

path-computation-error-no-topology:
: A base identity for indicating path computation error when there is no topology with the provided topology identifier.

path-computation-error-no-dependent-server:
: A base identity for indicating path computation error when one or more dependent path computation servers are unavailable.
: The dependent path computation server could be a Backward-Recursive Path Computation (BRPC) downstream PCE, as defined in {{?RFC5441}}, or a child PCE, as defined in {{?RFC8685}}.

The derived identities are defined in the "ietf-te-types" module, instead of an IANA-maintained module, because there are error reasons which are:

1. applicable only to the TE YANG modules and not to PCEP environments (e.g., path-computation-error-no-topology);
1. technology-specific which are better defined in technology-specific YANG modules;
1. match more than one PCEP number in order to hide the details of the underlay PCE architecture (e.g., path-computation-error-no-dependent-server).

#### Protocol Origin {#protocol-origin}

The protocol origin identifies the protocol or mechanism a controller uses to instantiate a TE tunnel.
To model this, the "ietf-te-types" module provides a set of reusable YANG identities.
In addition to identities for protocols like PCEP {{!RFC5440}} and BGP {{!RFC9012}}, the module defines the following identity for tunnels created via an Application Programmable Interface (API):

protocol-origin-api: 
: A YANG identity used when the TE tunnel is instantiated through an API.

### Data Types

The "ietf-te-types" module contains the following YANG reusable data types:

te-ds-class:
: A type representing the Differentiated Services (DS) Class-Type of traffic as defined in {{!RFC4124}}.

te-label-direction:
: An enumerated type for specifying the forward or reverse direction of a label.

te-hop-type:
: An enumerated type for specifying that a hop is loose or strict.

te-global-id:
: A type representing the identifier that uniquely identifies an operator, which can be either a provider or a client. The definition of this type is taken from {{Section 3 of !RFC6370}} and {{Section 3 of !RFC5003}}. This attribute type is used solely to provide a globally unique context for TE topologies.

te-node-id:
: A type representing the identifier for a node in a TE topology. The identifier is represented either as 4-octet in dotted-quad notation or as 16-octet in an {{!RFC5952}} IPv6 address notation.
: This attribute MAY be mapped to the Router Address TLV described in {{Section 2.4.1 of !RFC3630}}, the TE Router ID described in {{Section 6.2 of !RFC6827}}, the Traffic Engineering Router ID TLV described in {{Section 4.3 of !RFC5305}}, or the TE Router ID TLV described in {{Section 3.2.1 of !RFC6119}}.
: The reachability of such a TE node MAY be achieved by a mechanism such as that described in {{Section 6.2 of !RFC6827}}.

te-topology-id:
: A type representing the identifier for a topology. It is optional to have one or more prefixes at the beginning, separated by colons. The prefixes can be "network-types" as defined in the "ietf-network" module in {{!RFC8345}}, to help the user better understand the topology before further inquiry is made.

te-tp-id:
: A type representing the identifier of a TE interface Link Termination Point (LTP) on a specific TE node where the TE link connects. This attribute is mapped to a local or remote link identifier {{!RFC3630}} {{!RFC5305}}.

te-path-disjointness:
: A type representing the different resource disjointness options for a TE tunnel path as defined in {{!RFC4872}}.

admin-groups:
: A union type for a TE link's classic administrative groups, as defined in {{!RFC3630}} and {{!RFC5305}}, or extended administrative groups, as defined in {{!RFC7308}}.

srlg:
: A type representing the Shared Risk Link Group (SRLG) as defined in {{!RFC4203}} and {{!RFC5307}}.

te-metric:
: A type representing the TE metric as defined in {{!RFC3785}}.

te-recovery-status:
: An enumerated type for the different status of a recovery action as defined in {{!RFC6378}} and {{?RFC4427}}.

te-link-access-type:
: An enumerated type for the different TE link access types as defined in {{!RFC3630}}.

### Groupings

The "ietf-te-types" module contains the following YANG reusable groupings:

te-bandwidth:
: A grouping that defines the generic TE bandwidth. The modeling structure allows augmentation for each technology. For unspecified technologies, the string-encoded "te-bandwidth" type is used.

te-label:
: A  grouping that defines the generic TE label. The modeling structure allows augmentation for each technology. For unspecified technologies, "rt-types:generalized-label" is used.

performance-metrics-attributes:
: A  grouping that defines one-way and two-way measured Performance Metrics (PM) and indications of anomalies on links or the path as defined in {{!RFC7471}}, {{!RFC8570}}, and {{?RFC7823}}.

performance-metrics-throttle-container:
: A  grouping that defines thresholds for advertisement suppression and measurement intervals.

explicit-route-hop:
: A  grouping that defines supported explicit routes as defined in {{!RFC3209}} and {{!RFC3477}}.

explicit-route-hop-with-srlg:
: A  grouping that augments the 'explicit-route-hop' to specify also SRLG hops.

encoding-and-switching-type:
: A grouping that defines the LSP encoding and switching types.

## Packet TE Types Module Contents

The "ietf-te-packet-types" module ({{pkt-yang-code}}) covers the common types and groupings that are specific to packet technology.

### Identities

The "ietf-te-packet-types" module contains the following YANG reusable identities:

backup-protection-type:
: A base identity for supported protection types that a backup or bypass tunnel can provide as defined in {{!RFC4090}}.

bc-model-type:
: A base identity for supported Diffserv-TE Bandwidth Constraints Models as defined in {{?RFC4125}}, {{?RFC4126}}, and {{?RFC4127}}.

bandwidth-profile-type:
: A base identity for various bandwidth profiles, also known as traffic profiles in {{Section 2.3.2 of ?RFC2475}}, that may be used to specify the temporal properties of a packet stream (e.g., MPLS-TE LSPs), e.g., as specified in {{MEF_10.3}}, {{?RFC2697}} and {{?RFC2698}}.

### Data Types

The "ietf-te-packet-types" module contains the following YANG reusable data type:

te-bandwidth-requested-type:
: An enumerated type for the different options to request bandwidth for a specific tunnel.

### Groupings

The "ietf-te-packet-types" module contains the following YANG reusable groupings:

performance-metrics-attributes-packet:
: A grouping that contains the generic performance metrics and additional packet-specific metrics.

bandwidth-profile-parameters:
: A grouping that defines common parameters for bandwidth profiles in packet networks.

te-packet-path-bandwidth:
: A grouping that defines the path bandwidth information and could be used in any Packet TE model (e.g., MPLS-TE topology model) for the path bandwidth representation (e.g., the bandwidth of an MPLS-TE LSP).
: All the path and LSP bandwidth related sections in the "ietf-te-types" generic module, {{te-yang-code}}, need to be augmented with this grouping for the usage of Packet TE technologies.

te-packet-link-bandwidth:
: A grouping that defines the link bandwidth information and could be used in any Packet TE model (e.g., MPLS-TE topology) for link bandwidth representation.
: All the link bandwidth related sections in the "ietf-te-types" generic module, {{te-yang-code}}, need to be augmented with this grouping for the usage of Packet TE technologies.

# TE Types YANG Module {#te-yang-code}

The "ietf-te-types" module imports the following modules:

- "ietf-yang-types" and "ietf-inet-types" as defined in {{!RFC9911}}

- "ietf-routing-types" as defined in {{!RFC8294}}

- "ietf-network" and "ietf-network-topology" as defined in {{!RFC8345}}

In addition to {{!RFC9911}} and {{!RFC8294}}, this module references the following documents in defining the types and YANG groupings:
{{?RFC9522}}, {{!RFC4090}}, {{!RFC4202}}, {{!RFC4328}}, {{!RFC4561}}, {{?RFC4657}}, {{?RFC4736}}, {{!RFC6004}}, {{!RFC6378}}, {{!RFC6511}}, {{!RFC7139}}, {{!RFC7271}}, {{!RFC7308}}, {{!RFC7551}}, {{!RFC7571}}, {{!RFC7579}}, and {{ISOIEC_9899}}.

~~~~ yang
{::include-fold ../../ietf-te-types.yang}
~~~~
{: #fig-te-yang title="TE Types YANG module"
sourcecode-markers="true" sourcecode-name="ietf-te-types@2026-01-23.yang"}

# Packet TE Types YANG Module {#pkt-yang-code}

The "ietf-te-packet-types" module imports the following modules:

- "ietf-yang-types" as defined in {{!RFC9911}}

- "ietf-te-types" as defined in {{te-yang-code}} of this document

~~~~ yang
{::include-fold ../../ietf-te-packet-types.yang}
~~~~
{: #fig-pkt-yang title="Packet TE Types YANG module"
sourcecode-markers="true" sourcecode-name="ietf-te-packet-types@2026-01-15.yang"}

# IANA Considerations

This document requests IANA to update the following URIs in the "IETF XML Registry" {{?RFC3688}} to refer to this document:

~~~~
      URI: urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-te-types
      Registrant Contact:  The IESG.
      XML: N/A, the requested URI is an XML namespace.

      URI: urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-te-packet-types
      Registrant Contact:  The IESG.
      XML: N/A, the requested URI is an XML namespace.
~~~~

This document requests IANA to register the following YANG modules in the "YANG Module Names" registry {{!RFC6020}}{{!RFC9890}} within the "YANG Parameters" registry group.

~~~~
      name:      ietf-te-types
      Maintained by IANA?  N
      namespace: urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-te-types
      prefix:    te-types
      reference: RFC XXXX

      name:      ietf-te-packet-types
      Maintained by IANA?  N
      namespace: urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-te-packet-types
      prefix:    te-packet-types
      reference: RFC XXXX
~~~~

# Security Considerations

This section is modeled after the template described in Section 3.7
of {{?I-D.ietf-netmod-rfc8407bis}}.

The "ietf-te-types" and the "ietf-te-packet-types" YANG modules define data models that are
designed to be accessed via YANG-based management protocols, such as
NETCONF {{?RFC6241}} and RESTCONF {{?RFC8040}}. These YANG-based management
protocols (1) have to use a secure transport layer (e.g., SSH {{?RFC4252}}, TLS {{?RFC8446}}, and
QUIC {{?RFC9000}}) and (2) have to use mutual authentication.

The Network Configuration Access Control Model (NACM) {{!RFC8341}}
provides the means to restrict access for particular NETCONF or
RESTCONF users to a preconfigured subset of all available NETCONF or
RESTCONF protocol operations and content.

The YANG modules define a set of identities, types, and
groupings. These nodes are intended to be reused by other YANG
modules. The modules by themselves do not expose any data nodes that
are writable, data nodes that contain read-only state, or RPCs.
As such, there are no additional security issues related to
the YANG module that need to be considered.

Modules that use the groupings that are defined in this document
should identify the corresponding security considerations.
For example using 'explicit-route-hop', 'record-route-state' or 'te-topology-identifier' (which includes the 'client-id') groupings may expose sensitive topology information.

--- back

# The Complete Schema Trees {#yang-tree}

This appendix presents the complete tree of the TE and Packet TE types data
model.
See {{?RFC8340}} for an explanation of the symbols used.
The data type of every leaf node is shown near the right end of the corresponding line.

## TE Types Schema Tree

~~~~ ascii-art
{::include-fold ../../ietf-te-types.tree}
~~~~

## Packet TE Types Schema Tree

~~~~ ascii-art
{::include-fold ../../ietf-te-packet-types.tree}
~~~~

# Changes from RFC 8776 {#changes-bis}

This version adds new common data types, identities, and groupings to the YANG modules. It also updates some of the existing data types, identities, and groupings in the YANG modules and fixes few bugs in {{!RFC8776}}.

The following new identities have been added to the 'ietf-te-types' module:

- lsp-provisioning-error-reason;

- association-type-diversity;

- tunnel-admin-state-auto;

- lsp-restoration-restore-none;

- restoration-scheme-rerouting;

- path-metric-optimization-type;

- link-path-metric-type;

- link-metric-type and its derived identities;

- path-computation-error-reason and its derived identities;

- protocol-origin-type and its derived identities;

- svec-objective-function-type and its derived identities;

- svec-metric-type and its derived identities.

The following new data types have been added to the 'ietf-te-types' module:

- path-type.

The following new groupings have been added to the 'ietf-te-types' module:

- explicit-route-hop-with-srlg;

- encoding-and-switching-type;

- te-generic-node-id.

The following new identities have been added to the 'ietf-te-packet-types' module:

- bandwidth-profile-type;

- link-metric-delay-variation;

- link-metric-loss;

- path-metric-delay-variation;

- path-metric-loss.

The following new groupings have been added to the 'ietf-te-packet-types' module:

- te-packet-path-bandwidth;

- te-packet-link-bandwidth.

The following identities, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, have been updated in the 'ietf-te-types' module:

- objective-function-type (editorial);

- action-exercise (bug fix);

- path-metric-type:

   new base identities have been added;

- path-metric-te (bug fix);

- path-metric-igp (bug fix);

- path-metric-hop (bug fix);

- path-metric-delay-average (bug fix);

- path-metric-delay-minimum (bug fix);

- path-metric-residual-bandwidth (bug fix);

- path-metric-optimize-includes (bug fix);

- path-metric-optimize-excludes (bug fix);

- te-optimization-criterion (editorial).

The following data type, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, has been updated in the 'ietf-te-types' module:

- te-node-id;

   The data type has been changed to be a union.

The following groupings, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, have been updated in the 'ietf-te-types' module:

- explicit-route-hop

   The following new leaves have been added to the 'explicit-route-hop' grouping:

   - node-id-uri;

   - link-tp-id-uri;

   The following leaves, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, have been updated in the 'explicit-route-hop':

   - node-id;

   - link-tp-id.

The "mandatory true" statements for the node-id and link-tp-id have been replaced by "must" statements that requires at least the presence of:

- node-id or node-id-uri;

- link-tp-id or link-tp-id-uri.

- explicit-route-hop

   The following new leaves have been added to the 'explicit-route-hop' grouping:

   - node-id-uri;

   - link-tp-id-uri;

   The following leaves, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, have been updated in the 'explicit-route-hop':

   - node-id;

   - link-tp-id.

The "mandatory true" statements for the node-id and link-tp-id have been replaced by "must" statements that requires at least the presence of:

- node-id or node-id-uri;

- link-tp-id or link-tp-id-uri.

- optimization-metric-entry:

   The following leaves, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, have been updated in the 'optimization-metric-entry':

   - metric-type;

      The base identity has been updated without impacting the set of derived identities that are allowed.

- tunnel-constraints;

   The following new leaf has been added to the 'tunnel-constraints' grouping:

    - network-id;

- path-constraints-route-objects:

   The following container, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, has been updated in the 'path-constraints-route-objects':

    - explicit-route-objects-always;

      The container has been renamed as 'explicit-route-objects'. This change is not affecting any IETF standard YANG data models since this grouping has not yet been used by any YANG data model defined in existing IETF RFCs.

- generic-path-metric-bounds:

   The following leaves, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, have been updated in the 'optimization-metric-entry':

   - metric-type;

      The base identity has been updated to:

      - increase the set of derived identities that are allowed and;

      - remove from this set the 'path-metric-optimize-includes' and the 'path-metric-optimize-excludes' identities (bug fixing)

- generic-path-optimization

   The following new leaf has been added to the 'generic-path-optimization' grouping:

    - tiebreaker;

   The following container, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, has been deprecated:

    - tiebreakers.

The following identities, already defined in {{!RFC8776}}, have been obsoleted in the 'ietf-te-types' module for bug fixing:

- of-minimize-agg-bandwidth-consumption (the 'svec-of-minimize-agg-bandwidth-consumption' identity should be used instead);

- of-minimize-load-most-loaded-link (the 'svec-of-minimize-load-most-loaded-link' identity should be used instead);

- of-minimize-cost-path-set (the 'svec-of-minimize-cost-path-set' identity should be used instead);

- lsp-protection-reroute-extra (the 'restoration-scheme-rerouting' identity should be used instead);

- lsp-protection-reroute (the 'restoration-scheme-rerouting' identity should be used instead).

{: numbered="false"}

# Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank 
Robert Wilton, Lou Berger, Mahesh Jethanandani and Jeff Haas
for their valuable input to the discussion
about the process to follow to provide tiny updates to a YANG module already published as an RFC.

The authors would like to thank
Mohamed Boucadair
and
Sergio Belotti
for their valuable comments and suggestions on this document.

This document was prepared using kramdown.
